although variable declaration is not compulsory in DB A,
it's definitely recommended that you declare Alvar Ari a bles that you intend to use,
as well as the type of data that you intend to use them for.
Declaring the data type of a variable leads to clarity in your code and helps to avoid
errors.
In this video.
We'll talk about the different data types that VB recognizes,
so let's go into the Exercises folder and in the section three folder Variables and
Constants.
You'll find a file called data Types.
So here we have a table,
which just gives a breakdown.
But the most common types of data that you store in variables in the top part of the table
.
We have primitive data such as text and numbers,
and in the bottom section we have some of the most popular word objects that you tend to
store references to in your variables,
as you can imagine.
Since word is essentially a word processor,
the string data type is probably the most frequently used and in this course will be using
the prefix str.
Every time we declare a string variable.
A string refers to an indeterminate number of characters,
so any combination of the text that you see on this page could returned a string.
Then we have whole numbers,
integer and loan,
and the difference here is the range.
So the interview data type reverse to a fairly small range from minus approximately 32,002
positive 32,000 and some change and then the long goes from approximately minus two billion
to approximately positive two billion.
Then we have single and double.
These are the floating point numbers,
which allowed numbers after the decimal point and the main difference between them.
They're both suitable for holding very large numbers.
The main difference between them for most people is the accuracy that you require.
So with single data type,
you have six decimal places of accuracy with the double.
You can have up to 14 numbers after the decimal point for monetary values with then got
currency,
so from minus 900 trillion up to positive 900 trillion or thereabouts.
And it allows up to four numbers after the decimal point of accuracy.
Although of course,
monetary values only normally display two numbers after the decimal point.
In order to achieve accurate calculations,
the currency type allows up to four numbers after the decimal point.
Then we have the date type,
which is used for dates and times,
and then we have 1,000,000,000.
And if you haven't come across the 1,000,000,000 data type before,
it basically stores one of two values.
True or false if you don't declare variables.
The default data type in V B A is called variant and are occasions where you will
explicitly declare a variant.
Basically,
a variant is a rapper mechanism rather than a data type,
which enables Vehbi eh to work out and keep track of the underlying data type and convert
the values in the variable appropriately.
So best practices not to use the variant unless the situation that you're working with the
type of data you're working with is unknown or unpredictable.
Stay away from the variant data type and always explicitly type your own variables by using
the as keyword.
Another thing to bear in mind when working with variants is that because VB A has more work
to do,
variants take more memory and also make programs slightly slower.
We had a brief look in the last video that declaring variables for use with objects such as
document and here we've got a run down of some of the other objects that you very
frequently used in this way and store references to in your variables and just remind you
when you're assigning values to variables,
you used the key word let,
which is optional when you're talking about data variables.
So because it's optional,
no one tends to use it,
and he used the keyword set when assigning values to object.
Variables.
Set,
however,
is obligatory.
In this section I will be using let just to remind you that let is as it were,
your positions set and just to get you thinking about which of the two key words is
appropriate that the variable that's being declared.
So what we'll do now is just to write a macro that allows us to play with a couple of these
different data types.
I will store the macro in the word VB a train in template,
but we don't have to open it directly.
All we need to do is to attach it,
attached the template to this document,
and we can then access the modules in the template via this document,
to do that,
we go across the developer,
click on document templates and then attach.
Then we work our way to the Exercises folder,
which in my case,
is on the desktop.
And here at the bottom you'll find the word VB a train in template once that's been
attached.
If we go across to the visual basic editor,
you'll find that all of the modules in that template and now accessible and we can write
Macron's directly into the template.
So here's the micro,
he wrote in the last video.
Next they'll do another one,
so it's best 030 to micro A.
I will call it data types,
so we'll begin by declaring a few variables.
So let's say Tim str title Strange Tim int words as integer Tim LNG characters or cars as
long them sng average a single on dim LNG average as double.
And then let's define a couple of object variables so we'll have them d o.
C.
As documents.
Daniel Tvl as table.
So now let's populate these variables.
So we'll say that str title will be the title at the top of this document,
which we can pick up by looking at the first paragraph of the document.
So for that reason,
we'll need to populate our document Variable first,
because it's an object we use set,
do you see equal to And we could use active documents.
Well,
we could refer to the document by name to refer to the document.
My name.
We would say documents and then in brackets and quotes,
we would put the name of the document.
So I'm just gonna go back to the desktop,
just copy the name of the document.
And now we can look inside D,
O.
C or Doc because that variable name Mary first specifically to that document.
So we all now use let's as a settle where it's optional.
I'm gonna keep using it during this section just to highlight the contrast between let and
set the str title equals stock,
not paragraphs one which means the first paragraph,
of course.
And then the paragraph is an object.
It's not actually a string and of course,
we're populating a string variable,
not an object variable.
So you've got to drill down inside the paragraph,
object to find the string which represents the text inside it on the way to do that is to
say,
Don't range,
not texts.
Then let's populate our words and characters.
So we're still on data variables here.
So it's gonna be let again into words,
and we're looking inside,
Doc.
No words don't count on the dot count property is how you actually pick up the number of
items in a collection.
So we've got the words collection and not Count says how many there are.
We do exactly the same four characters Let LNG cars the call Doc Doc characters count and
now the average.
So we've defined SNG average and LNG average really to highlight the difference in
precision between single and double.
So let SNG average equal LNG cars divided by into words,
and that will effectively give us the average word length.
Then I can just copy that line and change that to D.
B.
L.
So you got the same calculation.
But it will be interesting to look at the result that we end up in these two variables and
then finally,
let's populate our table.
So you back now to a word object.
So it's set tbl equal to Dr Tables one because,
of course,
we know there is only one table,
unless just a couple of extra variables to actually hold a number of rows and columns.
So dim int rose as Inter joe them in coals as indigent.
So,
having populated our table variable,
we can now populate the two data variables that go with the table.
So let int rose equal Tvl don't rose,
not count flit into Cole's Bqool Tbl columns that counts,
and that's pretty much it.